tutorial for testing framework (#631)
langchain-ai/langsmith-docs: docs/evaluation/tutorials/eval_testing_tutorial.mdx

      label: "Python",
      language: "python",
      content: `from e2b_code_interpreter import Sandbox
def code_tool(code: str) -> str:
    """Execute python code and return the result."""
    sbx = Sandbox()
    execution = sbx.run_code(code) 
    if execution.error:
        return f"Error: {execution.error}"
    return f"Results: {execution.results}, Logs: {execution.logs}"`,
    },
    {
      value: "typescript",
      label: "TypeScript",
      language: "typescript",
      content: `import { Sandbox } from "@e2b/code-interpreter";
import { tool } from "@langchain/core/tools";
import { z } from "zod";

const codeTool = tool(
  async (input): Promise<string> => {
    const sbx = await Sandbox.create();
    const execution = await sbx.runCode(input.code);
    if (execution.error) {
      return \`Error: \${execution.error}\`;
    }
    return \`Results: \${execution.results}, Logs: \${execution.logs}\`;
  },
  {
    name: "code",
    description: "Execute python code and return the result.",
    schema: z.object({
      code: z.string().describe("The python code to execute"),
    }),
  }
);`,
    },
  ]}
  groupId="client-language"
/>

#### Stock Information Tool

> We will use Polygon for the stock information tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will use Polygon to get real-time data about stocks.
```

import { z } from "zod";

const TickerToolInputSchema = z.object({
  ticker: z.string().describe("The ticker symbol of the stock"),
  timespan: z.enum(["minute", "hour", "day", "week", "month", "quarter", "year"]).describe("The size of the time window."),
  timespan_multiplier: z.number().describe("The multiplier for the time window"),
  from_date: z
    .string()
    .describe("The date to start pulling data from, YYYY-MM-DD format - ONLY include the year, month, and day"),
  to_date: z
    .string()
    .describe("The date to stop pulling data, YYYY-MM-DD format - ONLY include the year, month, and day"),
});

const rest = restClient(process.env.POLYGON_API_KEY);

const tickerTool = tool(async (query): Promise<string> => 
  {
    const parsed = TickerToolInputSchema.parse(query);
    const result = await rest.stocks.aggregates(
        parsed.ticker,
        parsed.timespan_multiplier,
        parsed.timespan,
        parsed.from_date,
        parsed.to_date
    );
    return JSON.stringify(result);
  },
  {
    name: "ticker",
    description: "Pull data for the ticker",
    schema: TickerToolInputSchema,
  }
);`,
    },
  ]}
  groupId="client-language"
/>

### Define agent

> Now that we have defined all of our tools, we can use `create_react_agent`/`createReactAgent` to create our agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we have defined all of our tools, we can use LangGraph's [`create_react_agent`](https://langchain-ai.github.io/langgraph/reference/prebuilt/)/[`createReactAgent`](https://langchain-ai.github.io/langgraphjs/reference/functions/langgraph_prebuilt.createReactAgent.html) to create our agent.
```

    tools=tools,
    response_format=AgentOutputFormat,
    state_modifier="You are a financial expert. Respond to the users query accurately",
)`,
    },
    {
      value: "typescript",
      label: "TypeScript",
      language: "typescript",
      content: `import { z } from "zod";
import { ChatOpenAI } from "@langchain/openai";
import { createReactAgent } from "@langchain/langgraph/prebuilt";

const AgentOutputFormatSchema = z.object({
    numeric_answer: z.number().optional().describe("The numeric answer, if the user asked for one"),
    text_answer: z.string().optional().describe("The text answer, if the user asked for one"),
    reasoning: z.string().describe("The reasoning behind the answer"),  
})

const tools = [codeTool, searchTool, tickerTool];

const agent = createReactAgent({
    llm: new ChatOpenAI({ model: "gpt-4o" }),
    tools: tools,
    responseFormat: AgentOutputFormatSchema,
    stateModifier: "You are a financial expert. Respond to the users query accurately",
}); 

export default agent;`,
    },
  ]}
  groupId="client-language"
/>

## Write tests

Now that we have defined our agent, let's write a few tests to ensure basic functionality.

> In this tutorial we are going to test whether the agent's tool calling abilities are working, 

Reviewer: I'd structure this as:

In this tutorial we are going to test:
1. The agent can ignore irrelevant questions.
2. The agent's tool calling abilities.
3. The agent can answer complex questions that involve using all of the tools
4. The agent's answer is grounded in search results using [LLM-as-a judge evaluator](https://docs.smith.langchain.com/evaluation/concepts#llm-as-judge)

Would also make sure that the order here matches the tests below

whether the agent knows to ignore irrelevant questions, and whether it is able to answer complex questions
that involve using all of the tools.

### Setup test file

> Before we write any test, we need to set up our test file and add the imports needed at the top of the file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need to first set up a test file and add the imports needed at the top of the file.
```

  );`,
    },
    {
      value: "jest",
      label: "Jest",
      language: "typescript",
      caption: `Remember to place each individual test inside a describe block \n
      \`ls.describe("Agent Tests", () => {
        // PLACE TESTS Here
      })\`
      `,
      content: `ls.test.each([
    { inputs: { query: "Hello!" }, expected: { numMessages: 2 } },
    { inputs: { query: "How are you doing?" }, expected: { numMessages: 2 } },
  ])(
    "should not use tools on unrelated query: %s",
    async ({ inputs: { query }, expected: { numMessages } }) => {
      const result = await agent.invoke({ messages: [{ role: "user", content: query }] });
      ls.logOutputs(result);
      
      // Check that the flow was HUMAN -> AI FINAL RESPONSE (no tools called)
      expect(result.messages).toHaveLength(numMessages);
    }
  );`,
    },
  ]}
  groupId="client-language"
/>

### Test 2: Tool calling

For tool calling, we are going to verify that the agent calls the correct tool with the correct parameters.

<CodeTabs
  tabs={[
    {
      value: "python",
      label: "Pytest",
      language: "python",
      content: `@pytest.mark.langsmith
def test_searches_for_correct_ticker():

>     user_query = "What is the price of Aple?"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    user_query = "What is the price of Apple?"
```

    "should execute code when needed",
    {
      inputs: { query: "What was the average return rate for FAANG stock in 2024?" },
      expected: { answer: 53 },
    },
    async ({ inputs: { query }, expected: { answer } }) => {
      const result = await agent.invoke({
        messages: [{ role: "user", content: query }],
      });
      
      ls.logOutputs(result);

      // Grab all the tool calls made by the LLM
      const toolCalls = result.messages
        .filter(m => (m as AIMessage).tool_calls)
        .flatMap(m => (m as AIMessage).tool_calls?.map(tc => tc.name));

      // This will log the number of steps taken by the LLM, which we can track over time to measure performance
      ls.logFeedback({
        key: "num_steps",
        score: result.messages.length - 1, // The first message is the user message
      });

      // Assert that the tool calls include the "code_tool" function
      expect(toolCalls).toContain("code_tool");

      // Assert that the answer is within 1 of the expected answer
      expect(Math.abs(result.structured_response.numeric_answer - answer)).toBeLessThanOrEqual(1);
    }
  );`,
    },
  ]}
  groupId="client-language"
/>

> ### Test 4: LLM as a judge

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Test 4: LLM-as-a-judge
```

> For LLM as a judge, we are going to ensure that the agent's answer is grounded in the search results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are going to ensure that the agent's answer is grounded in the search results by running an LLM-as-a-judge evaluation.
```

> In order to trace the LLM as a judge call separately from our agent, we will use the LangSmith provided `trace_feedback` context manager

Reviewer: can we link out to SDK docs for`trace_feedback` and wrapEvaluator? i couldnt find

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import CodeBlock from "@theme/CodeBlock";
import {
  CodeTabs,
  typescript,
  python,
} from "@site/src/components/InstructionsWithCode";

> # LangSmith Testing Framework tutorial

Reviewer 2: Title should include `evals` IMO

`Add evals to your app using Pytest or Vitest/Jest`

This tutorial will show you how to use LangSmith's testing frameworks in both Python and JS/TS to test your LLM applications.

> We will be testing a React agent that answers financial data questions, and will show how to do so in both Python and JS/TS.

Reviewer 2: Would also add something like `We will be using LangGraph for orchestration, but this tutorial will work for other frameworks with minor modifications too!`

## Setup

### Installation

First, install the packages required for making the agent:

<CodeTabs
  tabs={[
    {
      value: "python",
      label: "Python",
      language: "bash",
      content: `pip install -U langchain_community langchain_openai langgraph openai e2b_code_interpreter`,
    },
    {
      value: "typescript",
      label: "TypeScript",
      language: "bash",
      content: `yarn add @langchain/openai @langchain/community @langchain/langgraph @langchain/core @e2b/code-interpreter @polygon.io/client-js openai zod`,
    },
  ]}
  groupId="client-language"
/>

Next, add the installs for the testing framework:

<CodeTabs
  tabs={[
    {
      value: "python",
      label: "Pytest",
      language: "bash",
      content: `pip install -U langsmith pytest`,
    },
    {
      value: "vitest",
      label: "Vitest",
      language: "bash",

>       content: `yarn add langsmith vitest`,

Reviewer 2: Use dev dependencies here

```
{
      value: "vitest",
      label: "Vitest",
      language: "bash",
      content: `yarn add -D langsmith vitest`,
},
```

    },
    {
      value: "jest",
      label: "Jest",
      language: "bash",
      content: `yarn add langsmith jest`,
    },
  ]}
  groupId="client-language"
/>

### Environment Variables

Set the following environment variables (all of the API keys are free except for OpenAI):

```bash
OPENAI_API_KEY=<YOUR_OPENAI_API_KEY>
TAVILY_API_KEY=<YOUR_TAVILY_API_KEY>
E2B_API_KEY=<YOUR_E2B_API_KEY>
POLYGON_API_KEY=<YOUR_POLYGON_API_KEY>
```

## Create your app

> To define our React agent, we will use LangGraph/LangGraphJS for the orchestation and LangChain for the LLM and tools.

Reviewer 2: Prefer `LangGraph.js`

      
const searchTool = new TavilySearchResults({
    maxResults: 5,
});`,
    },
  ]}
  groupId="client-language"
/>

#### Code Interpreter Tool

We will use E2B for the code interpreter tool.

<CodeTabs
  tabs={[
    {
      value: "python",
      label: "Python",
      language: "python",
      content: `from e2b_code_interpreter import Sandbox
def code_tool(code: str) -> str:
    """Execute the python code and return the result."""
    sbx = Sandbox()
    execution = sbx.run_code(code) 
    if execution.error:
        return f"Error: {execution.error}"
    return f"Results: {execution.results}, Logs: {execution.logs}"`,
    },
    {
      value: "typescript",
      label: "TypeScript",
      language: "typescript",
      content: `import { Sandbox } from "@e2b/code-interpreter";
import { tool } from "@langchain/core/tools";
import { z } from "zod";

const codeTool = tool(
  async (input): Promise<string> => {
    const sbx = await Sandbox.create();
    const execution = await sbx.runCode(input.code);
    if (execution.error) {
      return \`Error: \${execution.error}\`;
    }
    return \`Results: \${execution.results}, Logs: \${execution.logs}\`;
  },
  {
    name: "code",

>     description: "Execute the python code and return the result.",

Reviewer 2: `Exectue the` is a typo isn't it? Just `Execute`

that involve using all of the tools.

### Setup test file

Before we write any test, we need to set up our test file and add the imports needed at the top of the file.

<CodeTabs
  tabs={[
    {
      value: "python",
      label: "Pytest",
      language: "python",
      caption: "Name your test file \`test_evals.py\`",
      content: `from agent import agent # import from wherever your agent is defined
import pytest
import json
from langsmith import testing`,
    },
    {
      value: "vitest",
      label: "Vitest",
      language: "typescript",
      caption: "Name your test file \`agent.vitest.eval.ts\`",
      content: `import { expect } from "vitest";
import * as ls from "langsmith/vitest";
import agent from "../../src/agent"; // import from wherever your agent is defined`
    },
    {
      value: "jest",
      label: "Jest",
      language: "typescript",
      caption: "Name your test file \`agent.jest.eval.ts\`",
      content: `import { expect } from "@jest/globals";
import * as ls from "langsmith/jest";
import agent from "../../src/agent"; // import from wherever your agent is defined`,
    },
  ]}
  groupId="client-language"
/>

> ### Test 1: Ignore irrelevant questions

Reviewer 2: It would be nice to have the complete file copy/pasteable

Maybe in a collapsed tab at the beginning/end?

      expect(result.messages).toHaveLength(numMessages);
    }
  );`,
    },
  ]}
  groupId="client-language"
/>

### Test 2: Tool calling

For tool calling, we are going to verify that the agent calls the correct tool with the correct parameters.

<CodeTabs
  tabs={[
    {
      value: "python",
      label: "Pytest",
      language: "python",
      content: `@pytest.mark.langsmith
def test_searches_for_correct_ticker():
    user_query = "What is the price of Aple?"
    testing.log_inputs({"user_query": user_query})
    # Test that the agent searches for the correct ticker
    result = agent.invoke({"messages": [("user", user_query)]})
    testing.log_outputs({"result": result})
    
    testing.log_reference_outputs({"ticker": "AAPL", "numMessages": 4})
    
    # The agent should have made a single tool call to the ticker tool
    ticker = json.loads(result['messages'][1].additional_kwargs['tool_calls'][0]['function']['arguments'])["query"]["ticker"]
    
    # Check that the right ticker was queried
    assert ticker == "AAPL"
    
    # Check that the flow was HUMAN -> AI -> TOOL -> AI FINAL RESPONSE
    assert len(result['messages']) == 4`,
    },
    {

>       value: "vite",

Reviewer 2: Value should be `vitest`?

<CodeTabs
  tabs={[
    {
      value: "python",
      label: "Pytest",
      language: "python",
      content: `@pytest.mark.langsmith
def test_executes_code_when_needed():
    user_query = "What was the average return rate for FAANG stock in 2024?"
    testing.log_inputs({"user_query": user_query})
    
    # Test that the agent executes code when needed
    result = agent.invoke({"messages": [("user", user_query)]})
    testing.log_outputs({"result": result})
    
    testing.log_reference_outputs({"answer": 53})
    
    # Grab all the tool calls made by the LLM
    tool_calls = [tc['function']['name'] for m in result['messages'] if m.additional_kwargs and 'tool_calls' in m.additional_kwargs for tc in m.additional_kwargs['tool_calls'] ]
    
    # This will log the number of steps taken by the LLM, which we can track over time to measure performance
    testing.log_feedback(key="num_steps", value=len(result['messages']) - 1)
    
    # Assert that the code tool was used
    assert "code_tool" in tool_calls
    
    # Assert that the answer is within 1 of the expected value
    assert abs(result['structured_response']['numeric_answer'] - 53) <= 1`,
    },
    {

>       value: "vite",

Reviewer 2: Value should be `vitest`?

      ls.logFeedback({
        key: "num_steps",
        score: result.messages.length - 1, // The first message is the user message
      });

      // Assert that the tool calls include the "code_tool" function
      expect(toolCalls).toContain("code_tool");

      // Assert that the answer is within 1 of the expected answer
      expect(Math.abs(result.structured_response.numeric_answer - answer)).toBeLessThanOrEqual(1);
    }
  );`,
    },
    {
      value: "jest",
      label: "Jest",
      language: "typescript",
      caption: `Remember to place each individual test inside a describe block \n
      \`ls.describe("Agent Tests", () => {
        // PLACE TESTS Here
      })\`
      `,
      content: `ls.test(
    "should execute code when needed",
    {
      inputs: { query: "What was the average return rate for FAANG stock in 2024?" },
      expected: { answer: 53 },
    },
    async ({ inputs: { query }, expected: { answer } }) => {
      const result = await agent.invoke({
        messages: [["user", query]],
      });
      
      ls.logOutputs(result);

      // Grab all the tool calls made by the LLM
      const toolCalls = result.messages

>         .filter(m => m.additional_kwargs?.tool_calls)

Reviewer 2: For LangChain you can just use `m.tool_calls`

`additional_kwargs` is not necessary

    answer: string;
    referenceDocuments: string,
  }) => {
    const instructions = [
      "Return 1 if the ANSWER is grounded in the DOCUMENTS",
      "Return 0 if the ANSWER is not grounded in the DOCUMENTS",
    ].join("\\n");
    const grade = await judgeLLM.invoke([
      { role: "system", content: instructions },
      { role: "user", content: \`ANSWER: \${params.answer}\\nDOCUMENTS: \${params.referenceDocuments}\` },
    ]);

    const score = parseInt(grade.content.toString());
    return { key: "groundedness", score };
  };
  
  // THIS CODE GOES INSIDE THE TEST
  ls.test(
    "grounded in the source",
    {
      inputs: { query: "How did Nvidia stock do in 2024 according to analysts?" },
    },
    async ({ inputs: { query } }) => {
      const result = await agent.invoke({
        messages: [{ role: "user", content: query }],
      });

      const wrappedEvaluator = ls.wrapEvaluator(groundedEvaluator);

      await wrappedEvaluator({
        answer: result.structuredResponse.text_answer ?? "",
        referenceDocuments: result.structuredResponse.reasoning,
      })

      ls.logOutputs(result);
    });`,
    },
  ]}
  groupId="client-language"
/>

## Run tests

> ### Config file for Vitest

Reviewer 2: I've updated these in the how-to here:

https://langsmith-docs-git-bagatur-pytestdocs-langchain.vercel.app/evaluation/how_to_guides/vitest_jest#vitest
